---
tool_name: Google AI Principles
url: https://ai.google/responsibility/principles/
fetched_at: '2025-10-24T19:08:08.740252+00:00'
content_hash: e072ba65209ea0930df49d705bfeff8ba321ce7b2d7ed1bdbcbe392cc3f6121d
risk_flags:
- intellectual property
---

Our approach to AI is grounded in these three principles: We develop AI that assists, empowers, and inspires people in almost every field of human endeavor; drives economic progress; and improves lives, enables scientific breakthroughs, and helps address humanityâs biggest challenges. a. Developing and deploying models and applications where the likely overall benefits substantially outweigh the foreseeable risks.Â b. Advancing the frontier of AI research and innovation through rigorous application of the scientific method, rapid iteration, and open inquiry.Â c. Using AI to accelerate scientific discovery and breakthroughs in areas like biology, medicine, chemistry, physics, and mathematics. d. Focusing on solving real world problems, measuring the tangible outcomes of our work, and making breakthroughs broadly available, enabling humanity to achieve its most ambitious and beneficial goals. Because we understand that AI, as a still-emerging transformative technology, poses evolving complexities and risks, we pursue AI responsibly throughout the AI development and deployment lifecycle, from design to testing to deployment to iteration, learning as AI advances and uses evolve. a. Implementing appropriate human oversight, due diligence, and feedback mechanisms to align with user goals, social responsibility, and widely accepted principles of international law and human rights. b. Investing in industry-leading approaches to advance safety and security research and benchmarks, pioneering technical solutions to address risks, and sharing our learnings with the ecosystem. c. Employing rigorous design, testing, monitoring, and safeguards to mitigate unintended or harmful outcomes and avoid unfair bias. d. Promoting privacy and security, and respecting intellectual property rights. We make tools that empower others to harness AI for individual and collective benefit. a. Developing AI as a foundational technology capable of driving creativity, productivity, and innovation across a wide array of fields, and also as a tool that enables others to innovate boldly. b. Collaborating with researchers across industry and academia to make breakthroughs in AI, while engaging with governments and civil society to address challenges that canât be solved by any single stakeholder. c. Fostering and enabling a vibrant ecosystem that empowers others to build innovative tools and solutions and contribute to progress in the field.
